   Normally, I don't like to read books and especially biographies. But the book that changed my thoughts is ***A.P.J Abdul Kalam: The People's President***. It is one of the best book that I have read. It predisposed me to rethink my life. When I started to read this book, I was thinking that why I am reading this book. But as I read the book, my curiosity increased. This is the short biography of our *Missile Man of India, Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam*.
   This book is not only the biography of Dr. Abdul Kalam but also it more than it but we should have the mindset to learn from this book.  This book is filled with events that happened in the life of Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. I will highlight some of the events happened in his life described in this book in very short because we can not accommodate their duties in such a blog.
    The full name of Dr. Abdul Kalam was Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam. The book starts with the description of the scene a little boy watching his father and brother build a boat. After his family had lost most of his fortune because of some reasons their businesses failed. To help the family, Kalam started selling newspapers at an early age. His early working life as a newspaper boy at the age of eight. In his school days, Kalam had average grades but was described as a bright and hardworking student who had a strong desire to learn. Mathematics was his main interest. He was the clever and hardworking little boy in his school, perhaps even in his town, Rameswaram. He was annoyingly curious, full of crazy ideas, and up to mad innovations. The journey of his life is described in this book. He was always appreciated by his teachers from school life to engineering. 
    He had completed his matriculation from Schwartz Higher Secondary School, Ramanathapuram and later he went to Saint Joseph's College where he became a physics graduate. In 1955, he went to Madras to study aerospace engineering at Madras Institute of Technology. During his third year of graduation, he was assigned a project to design a low-level attack aircraft together with a few other students. Their teacher had given them a tight deadline for completing the project, it was very difficult. Kalam worked hard under immense pressure and finally completed his project within the given deadline. The teacher was impressed by the dedication of Kalam. 
    He wanted to become a fighter plane pilot. He was stepping towards his dream. He got an interview call from an Indian Air Force. He ranked ninth among 25 candidates, but unfortunately, there were only eight positions were available. He was desperate to pursue a career in flying. After getting failed he visited an ashram and met one of the swamis from that ashram. He told kalam that just forget about the failure and accept the new opportunities. This was the turning point in his life. After that, he started his career as a scientist at the Aeronautical Development Establishment of the Defence Research and Development Organization. He started his career by designing the small hovercraft. He visited NASA's Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia; Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland; and Wallops Flight Facility to study the rockets. Then he came back to India and launched the first sounding rocket which was sent by the NASA to India in dissembled form.
    He was not much satisfied with his work at DRDO and when he received transfer orders to the ISRO in 1969 he became happy. There he served as the project director of the SLV-III which successfully deployed the Rohini satellite in near-earth orbit in July 1980. It is India's first indigenously designed and produced a satellite launch vehicle.  Under the leadership of Abdul Kalam, the project of IGMDP proved to be successful by producing missiles like the first Prithvi missile in 1988 and then the Agni missile in 1989. Due to his contribution, he was known as "Missile Man of India." 
    In 2002, he was invited by the ruling party as a candidate for the post of President of India. He served the nations as President from 2002-2007.He decided not to contest the Presidential election again in 2007 and stepped down as the president. 
    After leaving the office, Dr. Abdul Kalam chose the education field and became a visiting professor at the Indian Institute of Management Shillong, the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad, the Indian Institute of Management Indore, an honorary fellow of the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.
    Dr. Abdul Kalam was delivering a lecture at IIM Shillong where he suffered a heart attack and his condition became critical, so, he was shifted to the nearest hospital where thereafter, he died of cardiac arrest.
    He got failed various times in his life but never gave up. He said that failure is the first step towards success. Failure is not a failure because it tells us in which way we can not achieve it. These are the most inspirational words for me. They sacrificed themselves for the country.
This was the short information of people's President Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. 

